I had previously mentioned,
that you need context
words and center words
to train your continuous
bag-of-words model.
The question now is,
how do you actually get
these words? Let's dive in.
Previously, you cleaned
and tokenized the corpus,
and you now have
this clean corpus
as an array of words or tokens.
Now, I will show you how to
extract center words and
their context words,
which will serve as examples to
train the continuous
bag-of-words model.
Here's the code to
do this in Python.
The get_windows function
takes two arguments,
words, which is an array
of words, or tokens.
But I'll stick with
the term words here.
The context have size
stored in the variable C,
which is the number
of words to be
taken on each side
of the center word.
This was 2 in the
previous video,
for a total window size of 5.
The function initializes
a counter with
the index of the first word
that has enough words before it.
In the working example,
I am happy because
I am learning,
the tokenized array would be,
I am happy because
I am learning,
where I has the index 0,
am index 1, and so on.
For a context have size of 2,
where the context words are
the two words before and
after the center word.
The first center word that
can be used is happy.
It's index is 2,
which is the size
of the context.
I then start a loop
in this index,
which will run until it
reaches the last
possible center word,
which is the last word that
has two words after it.
Stopping just before it
reaches the index
corresponding to
the number of words in the array
minus the size of the context.
In each iteration of the loop,
I extract the center word,
which is the word at
the current index.
Next, I create an array with
the C words before
the center word,
and the C words after it.
I can now return the context
word and center words.
I'm using a special way of
returning value in Python.
As you can see, I'm using
the yield keyword
instead of return.
Without going into
too much detail,
where return would immediately
exit the function,
yield returns the
values and simply
pauses the main
get_windows function.
The function known as a
generator function with
the use of yield will
then continue running,
if more values are needed.
Simply put, with a yield,
I can return values from
a function several times,
which is what I'm doing at
each iteration of
the while loop.
Finally, I increase my
index by one to move
my sliding window one word
to the right. Just to recap.
The get_windows
function takes in
a corpus and the context size,
and returns the
context words and
center words for each
successive window.
Here's how to use this function.
I'm using a loop to get
the successive tuples of
context words and center
words into x and y.
Then displaying these words,
you will notice that I'm using
usual machine learning notation
for features and target,
as this is what the
context words and
center words are for the
continuous bag-of-words model.
If I run the code on the array,
I am happy because
I am learning,
which I got by
tokenizing the sentence,
I'm happy because I'm learning
and the context have size of 2,
this is the output.
Up next, you'll convert this
sets of words into a set of
vectors is going
to be consumed by
the continuous
bag-of-words model.
You have seen how to
extract center words and
contexts words using a
sliding window in Python.
This is useful for the
programming assignments.
You also saw how you can use
the yield functionality
in Python,
which is commonly used
for data generators,
or you can think of them
as functions that keep
giving you data
in small batches.